manage/clients/install-client.mdx, before:

---
title: "Install Client"
description: "Install Olm as a binary"
---

Olm can be installed as either a static binary executable or a Docker container. Configuration is passed via CLI arguments in both cases.

<Warning>
You **must first create a client and copy the Olm config** in Pangolin before running Olm.
</Warning>

## Binary Installation

### Quick Install (Recommended)

Use this command to automatically install Olm. It detects your system architecture automatically and always pulls the latest version, adding Olm to your PATH:

```bash
curl -fsSL https://digpangolin.com/get-olm.sh | bash
```

### Manual Download

Binaries for Linux, macOS, and Windows are available in the [GitHub releases](https://github.com/fosrl/olm/releases) for ARM and AMD64 (x86_64) architectures.

Download and install manually:

```bash
wget -O olm "https://github.com/fosrl/olm/releases/download/{version}/olm_{architecture}" && chmod +x ./olm
```

<Note>
Replace `{version}` with the desired version and `{architecture}` with your architecture. Check the [release notes](https://github.com/fosrl/olm/releases) for the latest information.
</Note>

### Running Olm

Run Olm with the configuration from Pangolin:

```bash
olm \
--id 31frd0uzbjvp721 \
--secret h51mmlknrvrwv8s4r1i210azhumt6isgbpyavxodibx1k2d6 \
--endpoint https://example.com
```

### Permanent Installation

Install to your PATH (may need to run as root):

```bash
mv ./olm /usr/local/bin
```

<Note>
The quick installer will do this step for you.
</Note>

### Systemd Service

Create a basic systemd service:

```ini title="/etc/systemd/system/olm.service"
[Unit]
Description=Olm
After=network.target

[Service]
ExecStart=/usr/local/bin/olm --id 31frd0uzbjvp721 --secret h51mmlknrvrwv8s4r1i210azhumt6isgbpyavxodibx1k2d6 --endpoint https://example.com
Restart=always
User=root

[Install]
WantedBy=multi-user.target
```

<Warning>
Make sure to move the binary to `/usr/local/bin/olm` before creating the service!
</Warning>

## Windows Service

On Windows, olm has to be installed and run as a Windows service. When running it with the cli args, it will attempt to install and run the service to function like a cli tool. You can also run the following:

### Service Management Commands

```
# Install the service
olm.exe install

# Start the service
olm.exe start

# Stop the service
olm.exe stop

# Check service status
olm.exe status

# Remove the service
olm.exe remove

# Run in debug mode (console output) with our without id & secret
olm.exe debug

# Show help
olm.exe help
```

### Service Configuration

When running as a service, Olm will read configuration from environment variables or you can modify the service to include command-line arguments:

1. Install the service: `olm.exe install`
2. Configure the service with your credentials using Windows Service Manager or by setting system environment variables:
    - `PANGOLIN_ENDPOINT=https://example.com`
    - `OLM_ID=your_olm_id`
    - `OLM_SECRET=your_secret`
3. Start the service: `olm.exe start`

### Service Logs

When running as a service, logs are written to:

-   Windows Event Log (Application log, source: "OlmWireguardService")
-   Log files in: `%PROGRAMDATA%\olm\logs\olm.log`

You can view the Windows Event Log using Event Viewer or PowerShell:

```powershell
Get-EventLog -LogName Application -Source "OlmWireguardService" -Newest 10
```

## Gotchas

Olm creates a native tun interface. This usually requires sudo / admin permissions. Some notes:

- **Windows**: Olm will run as a service. You can use the commands described [Configure Client](/manage/clients/configure-client) to manage it. You can use this to run it in the background if needed!
- **LXC containers**: Need to be configured to allow tun access. See [Tailscale's guide](https://tailscale.com/kb/1130/lxc-unprivileged).
- **Linux**: May require root privileges or specific capabilities to create tun interfaces.
- **macOS**: May require additional permissions for network interface creation.

Commit message:

Call out olm info about file

manage/clients/install-client.mdx, after:

---
title: "Install Client"
description: "Install Olm as a binary"
---

Olm can be installed as either a static binary executable or a Docker container. Configuration is passed via CLI arguments in both cases.

<Warning>
You **must first create a client and copy the Olm config** in Pangolin before running Olm.
</Warning>

## Binary Installation

### Quick Install (Recommended)

Use this command to automatically install Olm. It detects your system architecture automatically and always pulls the latest version, adding Olm to your PATH:

```bash
curl -fsSL https://digpangolin.com/get-olm.sh | bash
```

### Manual Download

Binaries for Linux, macOS, and Windows are available in the [GitHub releases](https://github.com/fosrl/olm/releases) for ARM and AMD64 (x86_64) architectures.

Download and install manually:

```bash
wget -O olm "https://github.com/fosrl/olm/releases/download/{version}/olm_{architecture}" && chmod +x ./olm
```

<Note>
Replace `{version}` with the desired version and `{architecture}` with your architecture. Check the [release notes](https://github.com/fosrl/olm/releases) for the latest information.
</Note>

### Running Olm

Run Olm with the configuration from Pangolin:

```bash
olm \
--id 31frd0uzbjvp721 \
--secret h51mmlknrvrwv8s4r1i210azhumt6isgbpyavxodibx1k2d6 \
--endpoint https://example.com
```

### Permanent Installation

Install to your PATH (may need to run as root):

```bash
mv ./olm /usr/local/bin
```

<Note>
The quick installer will do this step for you.
</Note>

### Systemd Service

Create a basic systemd service:

```ini title="/etc/systemd/system/olm.service"
[Unit]
Description=Olm
After=network.target

[Service]
ExecStart=/usr/local/bin/olm --id 31frd0uzbjvp721 --secret h51mmlknrvrwv8s4r1i210azhumt6isgbpyavxodibx1k2d6 --endpoint https://example.com
Restart=always
User=root

[Install]
WantedBy=multi-user.target
```

<Warning>
Make sure to move the binary to `/usr/local/bin/olm` before creating the service!
</Warning>

## Windows Service

On Windows, olm has to be installed and run as a Windows service. When running it with the cli args, it will attempt to install and run the service to function like a cli tool. You can also run the following:

### Service Management Commands

```
# Install the service
olm.exe install

# Start the service
olm.exe start

# Stop the service
olm.exe stop

# Check service status
olm.exe status

# Remove the service
olm.exe remove

# Run in debug mode (console output) with our without id & secret
olm.exe debug

# Show help
olm.exe help
```

Note running the service requires credentials in `%PROGRAMDATA%\olm\olm-client\config.json`.

### Service Configuration

When running as a service, Olm will read configuration from environment variables or you can modify the service to include command-line arguments:

1. Install the service: `olm.exe install`
2. Set the credentials in `%PROGRAMDATA%\olm\olm-client\config.json`. Hint: if you run olm once with --id and --secret this file will be populated! 
3. Start the service: `olm.exe start`

### Service Logs

When running as a service, logs are written to:

-   Windows Event Log (Application log, source: "OlmWireguardService")
-   Log files in: `%PROGRAMDATA%\olm\logs\olm.log`

You can view the Windows Event Log using Event Viewer or PowerShell:

```powershell
Get-EventLog -LogName Application -Source "OlmWireguardService" -Newest 10
```

## Gotchas

Olm creates a native tun interface. This usually requires sudo / admin permissions. Some notes:

- **Windows**: Olm will run as a service. You can use the commands described [Configure Client](/manage/clients/configure-client) to manage it. You can use this to run it in the background if needed!
- **LXC containers**: Need to be configured to allow tun access. See [Tailscale's guide](https://tailscale.com/kb/1130/lxc-unprivileged).
- **Linux**: May require root privileges or specific capabilities to create tun interfaces.
- **macOS**: May require additional permissions for network interface creation.
