manage/resources/tcp-udp-resources.mdx, before:

---
title: "Raw TCP & UDP"
description: "Configure raw TCP and UDP traffic through Pangolin tunnels"
---

<Note>
This feature is only available in self-hosted Pangolin instances.
</Note>

Pangolin supports raw TCP and UDP traffic because Newt can pass anything through the tunnel.

These resources can either be:
1. **Publically Proxied:** Map the resource to a port on the host Pangolin server, so you can access the resource from `<server-public-ip>:<mapped-port>`. This is useful if you want to access the resource over the public internet, such as exposing a game server like Minecraft.
2. **Internal Exposure:** Map services accessible on the same network as the site to an internal port on the site address. This is useful if you only want internal exposure to a resource when connected with a client.

## Proxied Resources

Proxied resources require extra configuration to expose on the Pangolin server. You'll need to configure firewall rules, Docker port mappings, and Traefik entry points. These steps require a server restart.

<Steps>
<Step title="Create the resource">
  In the Pangolin dashboard, go to Resources and click Add Resource. Select "Raw TCP/UDP resource", enable Public Proxy, and enter your desired publicly mapped port. This is the port you'll use to access the proxied resource.
</Step>

<Step title="Configure firewall">
  Open your desired ports on your VPS firewall, just like you did for ports 51820, 443, and 80. This is highly OS and VPS dependent.
  
  <Note>
  In this example, we're exposing two resources: TCP 1602 and UDP 1704.
  </Note>
</Step>

<Step title="Configure Docker">
  Add port mappings to your `docker-compose.yml` file:

  ```yaml title="docker-compose.yml" highlight={4,5}
  gerbil:
    ports:
      # ... existing ports ...
      - 1704:1704/udp # ADDED: Your UDP port
      - 1602:1602 # ADDED: Your TCP port
  ```
</Step>

<Step title="Configure Traefik">
  Add entry points to your `config/traefik/traefik_config.yml`:

  ```yaml title="traefik_config.yml" highlight={12-15}
  entryPoints:
    web:
      address: ":80"
    websecure:
      address: ":443"
      http:
        tls:
          certResolver: letsencrypt
      transport:
        respondingTimeouts:
          readTimeout: 30m
    tcp-1602:
      address: ":1602/tcp"
    udp-1704:
      address: ":1704/udp"
  ```

  <Info>
  **Important**: Always name your entry points in the format `protocol-port` (e.g., `tcp-1602`, `udp-1704`). This naming is required for Pangolin's dynamic configuration.
  </Info>
</Step>

<Step title="Restart the stack">
  Restart your Docker stack to apply all changes:

  ```bash
  sudo docker compose down
  sudo docker compose up -d
  ```
</Step>
</Steps>

<Note>
In this example, we expose port 1602 for TCP and port 1704 for UDP. You can use any available ports on your VPS.
</Note>

Commit message:

add allow_raw_resources flag to tcp/udp docs

manage/resources/tcp-udp-resources.mdx, after:

---
title: "Raw TCP & UDP"
description: "Configure raw TCP and UDP traffic through Pangolin tunnels"
---

<Note>
This feature is only available in self-hosted Pangolin instances.
</Note>

Pangolin supports raw TCP and UDP traffic because Newt can pass anything through the tunnel.

Ensure you have the flag enabled in the config file:

```
flags:
  allow_raw_resources: true
```

These resources can either be:
1. **Publically Proxied:** Map the resource to a port on the host Pangolin server, so you can access the resource from `<server-public-ip>:<mapped-port>`. This is useful if you want to access the resource over the public internet, such as exposing a game server like Minecraft.
2. **Internal Exposure:** Map services accessible on the same network as the site to an internal port on the site address. This is useful if you only want internal exposure to a resource when connected with a client.

## Proxied Resources

Proxied resources require extra configuration to expose on the Pangolin server. You'll need to configure firewall rules, Docker port mappings, and Traefik entry points. These steps require a server restart.

<Steps>
<Step title="Create the resource">
  In the Pangolin dashboard, go to Resources and click Add Resource. Select "Raw TCP/UDP resource", enable Public Proxy, and enter your desired publicly mapped port. This is the port you'll use to access the proxied resource.
</Step>

<Step title="Configure firewall">
  Open your desired ports on your VPS firewall, just like you did for ports 51820, 443, and 80. This is highly OS and VPS dependent.
  
  <Note>
  In this example, we're exposing two resources: TCP 1602 and UDP 1704.
  </Note>
</Step>

<Step title="Configure Docker">
  Add port mappings to your `docker-compose.yml` file:

  ```yaml title="docker-compose.yml" highlight={4,5}
  gerbil:
    ports:
      # ... existing ports ...
      - 1704:1704/udp # ADDED: Your UDP port
      - 1602:1602 # ADDED: Your TCP port
  ```
</Step>

<Step title="Configure Traefik">
  Add entry points to your `config/traefik/traefik_config.yml`:

  ```yaml title="traefik_config.yml" highlight={12-15}
  entryPoints:
    web:
      address: ":80"
    websecure:
      address: ":443"
      http:
        tls:
          certResolver: letsencrypt
      transport:
        respondingTimeouts:
          readTimeout: 30m
    tcp-1602:
      address: ":1602/tcp"
    udp-1704:
      address: ":1704/udp"
  ```

  <Info>
  **Important**: Always name your entry points in the format `protocol-port` (e.g., `tcp-1602`, `udp-1704`). This naming is required for Pangolin's dynamic configuration.
  </Info>
</Step>

<Step title="Restart the stack">
  Restart your Docker stack to apply all changes:

  ```bash
  sudo docker compose down
  sudo docker compose up -d
  ```
</Step>
</Steps>

<Note>
In this example, we expose port 1602 for TCP and port 1704 for UDP. You can use any available ports on your VPS.
</Note>
